# Machine-Learning-Optimization
Course Code: IA‑2‑024 (0) , Machine Learning and Optimization, 06.01.2024 (Course in Machine Learning &amp; Optimization during my fourth year of studies)

<br> <br>

## Assignment 1: 

Imagine that you are a farmer and you have purchased a new farm. You are thinking of planting two crops: wheat and barley, on the land. You have 10 hectares of land available. Wheat sells for $200 per hectare. Barley sells for $300 per hectare. The relevant factors are as follows:

•  Wheat requires 8 hours of labor per hectare per week. Barley requires 10 hours of labor per hectare per week. You and your spouse work on this farm. You both can work for a maximum of 35 hours per week per person. 

•  Wheat requires 6 kilolitre of water per hectare per day. Barley requires 9 kiloliter of water per hectare per day. You have 65 kiloliter of water available per day.

Your spouse has requested her wish to plant at least 3.5 hectares of wheat and at least 2.5 hectares of barley. It is not strictly neccessary to do this, but she will be happy if this can be achieved.

Please formulate this as a complete optimization problem. As usual, please submit as a pdf file in ItsLearning. This assignment does NOT require you to solve the problem. Mere formulation is sufficient. Grading is as follows: 

The correct decision variables fetch you 2 marks total. 

The correct objective function fetches you 1 mark total. 

The correct constraints fetch you 2 marks total. 

-------------------------

## Assignment 2:
Jenny is getting married and she would like to select at most 3 bridesmaids from among her 9 good friends Anna Barbara Carol Dany Emily Francesa Gina Helen and Inga. Her considerations are as follows:

1.) Anna Carol and Emily are good cooks, while others are not. Jenny needs at least one lady to be a good cook.

2.) Dany and Francesa have had a fight, so they cannot work together.

3.) Carol Dany Helen and Inga are great speakers. Jenny wishes that two bridesmaids should give speeches.

4.) Dany and Emily are very rich and will probably give great gifts. It is preferrably better if they are included. However, this is not a must-do. 

5.) Helen and Barbara are sisters. They should either both be bridesmaids or both not be bridesmaids. 

6.) Emily and Inga speak French fluently. Jenny has some French-speaking guests and it is required to have a French speaking bridesmaid.    

Please help Jenny decide the right bridesmaids for her wedding.

Please formulate this as a complete optimization problem. As usual, please submit as a pdf file in ItsLearning. This assignment does NOT require you to solve the problem. Mere formulation is sufficient. Grading is as follows: 

The correct decision variables fetch you 2 marks total. 

The correct objective function fetches you 1 mark total. 

The correct constraints fetch you 2 marks total. 

-------------------------

## Assignment 3:

Hello class, 

I request to make two separate programs that solve the TSP. You can use Java/Python or whatever language you wish. I request you to take a 5-node TSP. You can take the distance matrix as hardcoded data. One of your programs should use the Brute force technique. The other program should use the randomization algorithm. Please address the plain simple elementary TSP with no variants or special cases. 

Kindly submit via PDF file (uploaded to ItsLearning) or via a Google collab link. As usual, please include your results, explanation and code.  

-------------------------

## Assignment 4:

I encourage you to solve this assignment using Tabu search or Genetic Algorithms; but that is not compulsary. I will not penalize you for using any technique. 

Hello class,

If you do not know what is a Sudoku, please read this: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudoku   In this assignment, I request you to write a program for Sudoku problem generation. Please note that I do not need a Sudoku solver from you. 

Imagine that you work at a newspaper. Your editor wants you to put a fresh Sudoku puzzle every day in the newspaper. It will be a standard 9x9 Sudoku having numbers from 1-9 in all its 81 cells. Every row, every column and every traid (set of 9 cells) has all numbers 1-9 once and only once. You will provide a Sudoku puzzle where you specify 27 cells pre-filled from your side. The puzzle hence generated by you should be solveable for sure (meaning that it should be possible to tell at least one known full solution that is feasible). 

Kindly write your code in Python and provide the Google collab link as the submission for this assignment. Please remember to give me access to your Google collab.  

-------------------------

## Assignment 5:

This assignment is to be solved after I teach you to code mixed integer programs (including Cplex and Gurobi). I have exposed this early because some students need to see incoming assignments in advance. Other students do not need to start this immediately. 

Hello class,

If you do not know what is a Sudoku, please read this: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sudoku   In this assignment, I request you to write a program for solving a Sudoku instance. Please assume that the instance data is hardcoded as a 2-dimensional int matrix (2D array) within your program. In this array, the number 0 means that the concerned cell is empty (unknown). Otherwise a number between 1-9 is provided. No other number will be provided. 

Write a Python or Java program that solves the puzzle instance and finds one feasible solution. Doing this fetches you 10 points. I will test your program by changing the hardcoded instance in your code. Please provide your code as Google Collab link if written in Python. If written in Java, please include screenshots of various examples solved. 

For bonus 10 points (total 20), do the following additional exercize: Imagine that one specific puzzle has more than one unique solution. Your previous code found one solution. Re-run the solver with suitable changes to force the solver to find another (different) solution for the same puzzle instance. 

-------------------------

## Assignment 6:

Please note: This problem is not a childish thought problem or a needless task. Rather, it is based on the theory of fully asynchronous distributed systems and is related to "FLP Impossibility theorem". However it is neither required nor helpful to know or understand this theorem to solve this assignment. 

Please note: I give you this assignment as a task for constructing an algorithmic solution step by step. You should solve this AFTER I teach the Constructive algorithms topic. 

Humanity has sent a spacecraft named "Arcada #1" on a 1000 year journey to a nearby galaxy named Andromeda. No human beings are on board. The spacecraft only has N number of autonomous (strong artificial intelligence) robots on board. All robots are exactly similar in design. A small explosion happened on the spacecraft that rendered some k robots out of N to be corrupted. The "corrupted" robots can communicate with each other and do not wish to be exposed. 

The only way to find whether or not a robot is corrupted is as follows: There is one (and only one) test bed on the spacecraft. At a time, the test bed can load 2 robots. Both robots test each other. Both robots give an assessment of whether or not the other robot is corrupted. An "uncorrupted" robot gives the true assessment of any robot(s) that it assesses on the test bed. The "corrupted" robots can all collaborate to give whatever result they wish to give. Whenever the test bed is used, humans back on earth know the results immediately. The test bed can be used any number of times for any pair of robots, but the usage of the test bed is extremely costly for the overall spacecraft. Finally, humans on earth can easily terminate any robot(s) that were confirmed definitely to be corrupted. There is no other detection system, administrator, mother-computer or central intelligence on the spacecraft apart from the robots. 

Problem #1: If you are one of the uncorrupted robots, what strategy can you suggest for your colleagues (other uncorrupted robots) to find all K corrupt robots within the minimum number of usages of the test bed?    → 5 marks

Problem #2: If you are one of the corrupted robots, what strategy can you suggest for your colleagues (other corrupted robots) to avoid or delay detection as much as possible (and hence maximize the usages of the test bed)?    → 3 marks 

Problem 3: What is the minimum number K such that it is impossible for any algorithm to definitively prove which robot is corrupted and which is not?    → 2 marks

Please submit this assignment in the form of a Google colab link (if you solve with Python) or as a pdf file. Submission is via ItsLearning 

-------------------------

## Assignment 7:

Consider a variant of the knapsack problem where we need to address multiple issues: 

 → The total weight of the knapsack is limited by an upper limit that can be carried

→ The total size of the the knapsack is limited by an upper limit that can be fitted with the sack

Each item has a unique “value”. The total value of selected items must  be maximized. 

Please provide comparative code to solve this problem by four different optimization techniques:

→ Exact optimization technique

→ Genetic algorithm

→ ACO or PSO or Simulated annealing (any one is enough)

→ Design a simple single-pass constructive heuristic approach   

Please submit this assignment via a Google colab link or PDF file. 

-------------------------

## Assignment 8:

This assignment is meant to enable the students to:

Form a team
Propose the idea of the project to me
Agree the content and intent and the project beforehand to avoid confusions later. 
I request that you select a project that is within the scope of this course and based on the content taight here. I will be explaining same sample projects in class during the lectures.  I encourage you to submit as groups, assuming that larger groups face larger expectations. The project should have a simple minimal interface (textual interface is fine) to define the problem instance. The output should be presented in a human readable intuitive way. I expect that you cover the special cases, time limitations and exceptional scenarios in your project. In short, it should not be very easy for me to “break” or “crash” your project.  

ANSWER:

We propose a general-solver, that can (according to the requirements) solve 3 problems, a scheduling-, routing and assignment problem.

The general idea is to generate randomly all of these three problems, and using GA, solve the generated random problmes.

The structure of the project will be as follows:
Assignment Problem: Allocating tasks to employees by matching their skills in programming, design, and management using a genetic algorithm.

Routing Problem: Optimizing travel routes between various locations to minimize total distance, also solved using a genetic algorithm.

Scheduling Problem: Assigning employees to different shifts while considering their availability, using a genetic algorithm for optimal scheduling.

Genetic Algorithm Framework: A general-purpose genetic algorithm setup that evolves solutions over generations for complex optimization problems.

Distance Calculation: Computing distances between various locations to aid in route optimization and scheduling tasks.

-------------------------

## Assignment 9:

This assignment is provided as the means for you to submit your final project. I encourage submissions as Google colab links or as docker links (including Github links for me to see the code). 

I request that you select a project that is within the scope of this course and based on the content taight here. I will be explaining same sample projects in class during the lectures.  I encourage you to submit as groups, assuming that larger groups face larger expectations. The project should have a simple minimal interface (textual interface is fine) to define the problem instance. The output should be presented in a human readable intuitive way. I expect that you cover the special cases, time limitations and exceptional scenarios in your project. In short, it should not be very easy for me to “break” or “crash” your project.  

-------------------------

## Assignment 10:

Imagine that N number of rectangular objects have been provided to you. For each object, the width W and the height H is known. The objects can have different heights and widths (non-uniform) but they are definitely rectangular. They should be placed within a large 2-dimensional space of width K and height Q. Rotation of objects is not allowed. Rotation of the large rectangular space is not allowed. The objects cannot overlap. The objects should not overflow beyond the bounds of the large rectangular space provided. The arrangement is such that the total area of the individual N objects is equal to the area K*Q of the space provided. Further, there exists at least one non-overflowing non-overlapping arrangement of the objects in the space. Develop program to find a feasible arrangement of rectangles.  

Please see the attached pdf file as an illustration. Please submit your solution within ItsLearning via Google colab link or as a combination of a Docker image + Git link + demonstrative pdf file (showing usage). 

